# Midterm Note Taking App Difficultiees & Learnings

* Before starting to write code, I drew a roadmap to plan out the app with required inputs and features I wanted to incorporate based on what I learned in my class sessions.
* Then I grouped the inputs and features into respective categories of models, controllers, middlewares, routes, etc.
* Once I started writing, I was going back and forth between each js file to add/edit lines of code to include CRUD operations, authentication, error handling, etc.
* When I was ready to test the backend code, I was getting error such as connecting to MongoDB, variables not being defined, json inputs incorrectly entered, authentication errors, etc. For each error, I tried to locate the cause and debug based on the error message populated on my terminal. For some errors, I googled and got assistance from various forums for solutions.
* I think the most difficult part of this project was linking the backend to the frontend because I couldn't figure out how to show all the operations/features I added to my backend (CRUD, authentication, routing, etc.).
* I built a very basic frontend to start and from the code in our class sessions, I tried to backtrack and break down in smaller steps. Once I was able to get the basic setup working, I started to think about the layout more and how to make a responsive webpage to showcase all the features.
* When I was unsure where to start or got stuck working on script.js file, I used AI tools for assistance and get guidance on how the code should be written. Based on the responses, I applied the code to my script.js file and tested to ensure it was working the way I wanted to.
* Using AI tools helped because if the code generated was unfamiliar to me or different from what we covered in class, it allowed me to research and learn more about javascript and various methods of writing code to perform the same task.
* After connecting the backend to the frontend, when I tested my app again, sometimes I got no response and/or errors from the website. When this occurred, I had to backtrack to the point when the app was working last and reverse any changes I made. From there, I would re-write the code and test after every line/block of code to debug. This debugging process was more complicated than I thought because I was going back and forth between the backend code and frontend code.
* There are a few features that I want to work on and add to my application including a search bar function and settings section where a user could change their username and theme colours (light/dark). For my midterm project right now, I have added just the basic html/css for these features without any responsive functionalities.
